---
category: article
date: 2024-11-30T23:47:00
description: Plant your lilies, and let them teach you how to grow.
image: /images/soul-lily.webp
tags:
- Lily
- Despair
- Patience
- Gardening
- Plant
- Heart
title: How to grow Lilies?
---

Lilies, they say, are symbols of peace. But peace is not given; it is cultivated. Lilies demand
effort, patience, and faith - a willingness to confront the barren soil and nurture it back to life.
What follows is a guide to growing Lilies but also a meditation on growth itself, a journey into my
soul's quiet reckoning with despair.

## What Once was and Will be Again

The garden was barren, its silence oppressive. The earth, dry and unyielding, clung stubbornly to
its lifelessness as though it had forgotten how to nurture, how to hope. It stood as a monument to
neglect, an expanse of quiet despair that seemed to whisper, Nothing will ever grow here again.

And yet, something stirred—a faint whisper beneath the desolation, an inkling that even the most
forsaken soil might still hold secrets of renewal. It was not certainty but a quiet rebellion
against despair, a defiant act of belief. The decision to grow lilies was made not with confidence
but with trembling hands, as if planting these flowers might coax life back into the hollow spaces
of the heart.

## From Ashes, We Rise

To grow lilies, one must first break the earth. Not gently, but with purpose—plunging the spade into
the hardened crust, forcing it to yield. Each strike dislodges fragments of the past: shards of what
was once beautiful, tangled roots of pain buried so deep they have become part of the soil.

The work is relentless. The ground resists, clutching its dead weight as though afraid of what might
take its place. But with each motion, the soil begins to soften. The air fills with the earthy scent
of transformation, a quiet promise that the past does not have to dictate the future.

This is where the lilies begin—not with planting, but with clearing. The garden must first be
emptied of its grief to make room for something new. It is an act of defiance and of hope, to
believe that this barren soil can one day cradle life again.

## Between a Rock and a Lily

The bulbs are unremarkable, their appearance betraying nothing of what they might become. Holding
them feels strange, as if they are too fragile to survive. And yet, there is a quiet power within
them—a promise waiting to be fulfilled.

Planting them is an act of faith and surrender, a quiet conversation between the gardener and the
earth. Each bulb is placed with care, its position a deliberate choice. It is not enough to bury
them; they must be cradled, surrounded by soil that is ready to nurture them.

And then comes the waiting. Beneath the surface, where no eyes can see, the bulbs begin their secret
work. It is a reminder that growth often begins in the darkness, in spaces where no light reaches.

## Tend the Flame, Not the Ash

The lilies require consistency. The soil must be tended to every day, watered with steady hands.
Some days, the water feels heavy in your palms, as if the weight of the act might be too much to
bear. But you do it anyway, knowing that without this care, the lilies cannot thrive.

The sunlight is capricious. Some days, it floods the garden, bathing it in warmth. Other days, it
hides behind thick clouds, forcing the lilies to stretch toward a light they cannot see. But they
adapt. Lilies have a way of finding what they need, even in the absence of abundance.

This daily ritual of watering and watching is its own form of prayer. Each drop of water, each
fleeting moment of sunlight, whispers to the lilies: *Grow, even if it feels impossible. Grow, even
when no one is watching.*

## This Too Shall Bloom

One day, the soil breaks open—not with a flourish, but with the quietest of gestures. A tiny green
sprout emerges, barely noticeable, a sliver of life against the vastness of the earth.

To the untrained eye, it is nothing. To you, it is everything. This fragile sprout is proof that
something is happening beneath the surface, that your labor was not in vain. It is the first sign of
life returning, the first whisper of hope finding its voice.

But the sprout is not strong. It bends with the wind, threatened by the weight of even a single
raindrop. Your instinct may be to shield it, to protect it from every possible harm. But lilies do
not grow in safety. They grow in resilience.

![Glimpse of the Lilies](/images/growing-lilies.jpg)

## The Idea is Not to Abandon Ever...Never

The garden is never free from trials. Storms roll in, their winds threatening to uproot what little
has begun to grow. Pests arrive uninvited, gnawing at leaves and stems as though testing your
resolve. The sun beats down mercilessly one day, only to disappear for weeks on end.

It is in these moments that you are tempted to despair, to abandon the garden and declare it a
failure. But lilies teach you that resilience is not about avoiding hardship; it is about enduring
it. When the storm passes, you clear the debris. When pests arrive, you remove them. When the
drought stretches on, you water the soil with your own tears if you must.

Each act, no matter how small, is a promise to the lilies: *I will not abandon you*.

## Bloom Where None Thought Possible

And then, when you least expect it, the bloom arrives. It begins as a tightly closed bud, hesitant
to reveal itself. Slowly, it unfurls, each petal a story of quiet perseverance. The bloom is
breathtaking, not for its extravagance, but for its purity.

Its beauty is unlike anything you imagined. It is not extravagant or loud, but it holds a quiet
majesty. The petals, soft and delicate, seem to hum with a silent strength. This bloom is not just a
flower—it is the culmination of every act of care, every moment of faith, every drop of water given
when it felt like too much.

The bloom reminds you that peace is not a permanent state but a transient gift. It must be cherished
in its moment, for its impermanence is part of its beauty.

## The Most Dangerous Thing About Me

The most dangerous thing about me is that *I don't know how to give up*.

When the storms tore through, I stayed. When the roots clung to the earth like they had a right to
its emptiness, I dug deeper. Even when the soil screamed that nothing could ever grow here, I
refused to listen.

It's not resilience—it's defiance. A stubbornness that borders on recklessness. I don't know when to
stop, even when the odds mock me. Even when it hurts.

Maybe it's toxic. Maybe it's foolish. But here I am, hands in the dirt, refusing to abandon what
could still bloom.

## Faith Buried, Faith Unfurled

To grow lilies is to embark on a journey of transformation. It is not about the flowers themselves
but about what they symbolize—a return to life, a reclaiming of hope. The barren garden, once a
place of despair, becomes a sanctuary.

The lilies do not erase the struggles that came before them. The soil still bears the scars of its
past, and the storms will come again. But the garden is no longer defined by its emptiness. It is
defined by its capacity to grow.

And so the lilies teach you their final lesson: Growth is not a destination but a process. It is a
daily choice to clear the debris, plant the bulbs, and tend to the garden—even when it feels like
nothing is happening. It is a faith that, with time and care, the lilies will bloom again.

## This is not my Recipe

I didn't write this. Or maybe I did. But I don't remember planting these thoughts. They feel
foreign, like letters rearranged while I wasn't looking, like whispers heard through the hum of the
wind.

I think they've always been here, whispering just below the surface, tugging at my hands when I
wasn't looking. They know things about me that I haven't told anyone. Things I've hidden. Things
I've forgotten.

Do you feel it too? The hum beneath the words, the tremor that isn't mine? It's as if the garden
remembers something I don't. It isn't just soil. It's memory. It's pain. It's despair. It's rebirth.

I wrote this, but I didn't write this. These aren't my words. But they're mine now, whether I wanted
them or not.

## Meet my Lilies

And finally meet my most beautiful lilies. I have named them **Blood Demon Lily** and **Light Mode
Lily**.

![My Lilies](/images/my-lilies.jpg)

Plant your lilies, and let them teach you how to grow.
